# Code
The following section will serve as an overview of the exisitng code and the main thought process behind the decisions. The most recent versions of the code can be found in **AGT_6** and **glider6** in the folder ***Huvudprogram***.

## ESP32
The structure for the code is built upon two main chracteristics. Firstly the ESP32S3 has a dualcore processor, which enables it to split the code into two separe tasks that can be run simultaniously. This is done through the **void glidercontrol** and **void datagathering** whichs allows the glider to steer and collect data at the same time. Secondly the **glidercontrol** is split into cases which allows the glider to take different courses of action, depending on its situation. Bellow follows a breif description of the code structure:

- **includes, defines, variables** these make up the global variables and booleans aswell as libraries and definitions of pins.
- **voidHandles**, these are functions for the webpage.
- **voids**, these are functions for the glider.
- **void glidercontrol**, this is the running code for the glider. It contains a case structure which decides what actions are being taken. This void is run on one of the two cores.
    - **Gliderstate switch**
        - **Glider_init** is the initialization of the glider and its sensors.
        - **idle** is the resting state of the glider. From here it is meant to be controlled from the webpage.
        - **diving** is the start of the dive, the bladder is being emptied.
        - **gliding down**, this is where the glider exists when it is sinking. When the bladder is empty, the stepper motors begin too move. Then the glider waits for the right depth.
        - **gliding up** enters when the right depth is reached, the bladder begins filling and when full, the stepper motors puts the ballast package into place.
        - **Surface** is the state for when the glider is at the surface and decides what to do next. 
        - **Dropweight** is entered when the ESP32 has released the dropweight.
- **void Datagathering**, this runs in the background during normal operation of the glider. It constantly reads values from all the sensor and stores them in 'bunches' on the SD card.

### Notes on the current state of the code
At the moment the glider has rudementary functions for the most part, with huge room for improvement.

***Gliding down/up:***
At the moment, the only thing happening in these cases are the bladder filling/emptying and the steppermotors moving the ballast. There is room to in a more intriquite way incorporate regulation of the ballast positions for both roll and translational movement. 

***Surface***
This is mostly unfinnished, at the moment the code is built to simply get in a state of wifi controll. Although in the later parts of the code (maybe as comments) is the beggining of a communication system with the AGT. Not all cases are added to this yet, but the main logic is there. 

***General***
All throughout the code there are improvements that can be made regarding security and efficiency. This is talked more about in 5. Future Improvements. The main issues here are implementations of battery measurements and handling of the dropweight case. 

### Webpage
The code for the webpage is handled through the page.h file. Here the layout is written in **HTML** code and the functions in **javascript**. The interactions with the ESP32 are made through the **voidHandle** funcitons and and the **server.on** commands in void setup(). 

## AGT 

The code for the AGT is built on case structures and interactions with the ESP32. The part of the code which handles the satelite and GPS communication is based on the Sparkfun AGT repsitory nad their 'simple tracker and better tracker' examples. Additionally code has been implemented for communication with the ESP32 and release of the dropweight in case of emergency.

- **includes, defines, variables** these make up the global variables and booleans aswell as libraries and definitions of pins.

- **voids**, these are functions for the AGT.
- **void loop**, this is the running code for the AGT. It contains a case structure which decides what actions are being taken.
    - **State switch (loop step)**
        - **Loop_init** is the initialization of the AGT and decides what to do when woken up.
        - **Pickup** is the case when the glider is at the surface and periodically transmits its possition.
        - **Read UART** is when the AGT and ESP32 are communicating
        - **zzz**, this is where the sleeping case for the AGT when the glider is submerged.
        - **Wakeup** wakes up.
- **Functions for translating messages**

### Notes on the current state of the code
The code works in its current state. On the ESP side there arn't cases corresponding to all cases in the READ_UART loop step. Furthermore some timeout and sleep time parameters may need some adjusting. 

***General***
Many of the code segments regaridng the modem are very sequential. Since the AGT uses the same antenna for the Iridium and GPS, only one works at a time through the RF-Switch. Therefore the AGT needs to power up and power down one function at a time to not damage any components. 

When writing the code, keep in mind that some 'problems' that VScode finds, can't seem to be resolved. When analysing the code, expect ~70 problems. The code should however always analyze and verify correctly before uploading. 

Also when analyzing, makesure to have the correct board configured in VScode, otherwise it won't analyze correctly.